---
title: Rick Wash's Classes
layout: master
---

Rick's Classes
--------------

I teach a number of classes at the undergraduate, masters, and PhD levels.  In general, I am interested in the social
and technical aspects of information and communication technologies.  I teach classes in the areas of Social Computing,
Social Media, Technology and Journalism, Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), and Computer Supported Cooperative Work
(CSCW).

### Currently Teaching (Spring 2012)

* **TC 359**: *Server Side Web Development*   ([website](http://webdev.cas.msu.edu))
* **TC 985**: *Analysis for Media*      ([website](http://edhar.cas.msu.edu/tc985))

### Past Classes

#### Server Side Web Development

*TC 449, TC 359*  

This undergraduate class teaches the basics of server-side web application development using Ruby and the Rails
framework. By the end of the class, students will be able to develop and deploy a modern web application with both
server-side programming and client-side displays, including persistent data storage and dynamically generated webpages.
This is a programming class, but does not presume that the student has much programming background; an understanding of
basic world wide web technologies such as HTML is required.

*Schedule: Spring 2010, Spring 2011, Spring 2012, Fall 2012*

**Website:** <http://webdev.cas.msu.edu>

#### Large Scale Data and Exploratory Data Analysis

*CAS 992*

This special-topics class is a doctoral level methods class that looks at doing research using large quantities of real
world data. We will cover a number of topics throughout the semester, mostly focusing on developing research skills to
do this type of research. We will cover how to find and collect large samples of data, how to process, parse, munge, and
store that data in a database. And then we will learn how to analyze this data and why the analysis is different than
the analysis of more traditional data like that from experiments.

*Schedule: Fall 2011*

**Website**: <http://webdev.cas.msu.edu/cas992/>

#### The Future of News

*JRN 492, JRN 892*

This special topics class is at least as much about the future of journalism as it is about computing technology. With a
large majority of Americans using at least one, and often more than one, computer on a daily basis, computers have
fundamentally changed the way we produce and consume journalism. From speeding up the news cycle to changing the way
news is delivered to publicly and globally commenting on news stories, consumers have used computing technology to
change their relationship with the news. And at the same time reporters and journalists have found equally valuable used
for computers, from improved workflow to better sources to analyzing big data.

This class is about all of these changes. In this class, we will explore and discuss how technology has evolved, and how
the field of journalism has (in the past) and can (in the future) use that technology to improve. There will be a lot of
discussion amongst the class about ways that we can use these technologies to improve our reporting. Both undergraduates
and graduate students are welcome.

*Schedule: Spring 2011, Spring 2013*

**Website:** <http://compjourn.cas.msu.edu>

#### Information Networks and Technology

*TC 861*

This masters level class covers the basics of telecommunications technology: how does information reliably get from
point A to point B in today's world? We cover physical transmission media, the OSI 7-layer model of responsibility, and
many different network protocols. We put a particularly strong emphasis on understanding how these technical details
impact telecommunications businesses and all kinds of business decisions.

*Schedule: Fall 2010*

**Website:** <http://webdev.cas.msu.edu/tc861/>
