---
title: "Importance of Recent Success and Initial Overconfidence: Factors of Crowdfunders' Limited Learning"
author: Chankyung Pak and Rick Wash
workshop: ACM Conference on Economics and Computation (EC)
papertype: Poster
month: June
year: 2014
abstract: true
layout: workshop
type: workshop
tags: crowdfunding
---

Crowdfunding websites are new socio-technical systems where people raise money
from large numbers of Internet users ("the crowd") to support their projects.
Crowdfunding shares many common elements with traditional funding mechanisms
such as investment banks and public charities. Since many crowdfunders are
non-professional in raising money and do not get helped by experts for their
relatively small projects, they rely on learning from their experience to
successfully raise money. In this paper, we examine the dynamics on a
crowdfunding website DonorsChoose.org.

We present three behavioral traits of learning on DonorsChoose. First, success
breeds more success, and failure breeds more failure. This trait is stronger
than other types of learning such as information gaining or learning-by-doing
on DonorsChoose. Second, the more recent the experience is, the more it affects
the probability of success of the current project (recency effect). Lastly, as
a result of discouraging effect of previous failure, initially over-ambitious
teachers tend to drop out quickly rather than adjust their project size.
Individual crowdfunders' behavioral biases prevent them from becoming more
efficient users of this innovative funding tool to some degree. On the other
hand, it also suggests potential ways to improve their learning experience over
time.
